#separator:tab
#html:true
#notetype column:1

Basic	What is the ER Model?	A method to represent entities and relationships.
Basic	What is conceptual database design?	Designing a high-level database structure.
Basic	What is a Database?	A collection of data to support applications.
Basic	What is a Relational Model?	A common data model used by DBMS.
Basic	What is Relational Algebra/Calculus?	Formal query languages.
Basic	What is SQL?	A DSL to communicate with DBMS.
Basic	What is the key question in database design?	How to design a database that supports an application.
Basic	How to figure out database design?	Analyze tables, attributes, relationships, and constraints.
Basic	What tables to create?	Identify entities to model the system.
Basic	Which attributes should be added to each table?	List properties that describe each entity.
Basic	What are the relationships between tables?	Define associations using keys.
Basic	What constraints must tables follow?	Establish rules for data integrity.
Basic	Why is good database design important?	It prevents expensive schema updates in production.
Basic	When should the database structure be agreed upon?	Before implementation.
Basic	What key aspects are considered in database design?	Entities to model, their relationships, and domain constraints.
Basic	What formalisms can be used for database design?	ER diagrams, UML, etc.
Basic	What is Requirement Analysis?	Identifying system needs.
Basic	What is Conceptual Database Design?	Creating the E/R model.
Basic	What is Logical Database Design?	Defining tables and relationships.
Basic	What is Schema Refinement?	Optimizing the database schema.
Basic	What is Physical Database Design?	Mapping design to hardware.
Basic	What is Application and Security Design?	Designing application functionality and security.
Basic	What is requirement analysis?	Determining data storage, usage, and access.
Basic	What question addresses data storage?	What data is going to be store?
Basic	What question addresses data usage?	What are we going to do with the data?
Basic	What question addresses data access?	Who should access the data?
Basic	Who is involved in requirement analysis?	Both technical and non-technical people.
Basic	What is a common issue in requirement analysis?	It is usually very sloppy.
Basic	What challenge exists in requirement analysis?	Gap in understanding: super tricky.
Basic	What is conceptual database design?	A high-level database description bridging technical and non-technical views.
Basic	How precise should conceptual design be?	Precise enough for technical people yet simple for non-technical participation.
Basic	What does conceptual design enable?	A straightforward translation into a DBMS-supported data model.
Basic	Which model fits in conceptual design?	The E/R model.
Basic	What is logical database design?	Converting a conceptual design into a DBMS-specific schema.
Basic	What is schema refinement?	Identifying and refining potential problems in a database schema.
Basic	What is physical database design?	Ensuring the database meets performance criteria.
Basic	What is application and security design?	Reflecting application needs and accessibility in design.
Basic	What is an ER Diagram?	A visual DB design tool bridging requirements and design.
Basic	When is an ER Diagram used?	From requirement analysis to logical design.
Basic	What does ER stand for?	Entity and Relationship.
Basic	What is the ER Diagram visual syntax known for?	Precision for technicals and abstraction for non-technicals.
Basic	What are the attributes of Product?	name, category, price.
Basic	What is the attribute of Company?	name.
Basic	What relationship connects the entities?	Product Makes Company.
Basic	What is an entity?	An individual object.
Basic	What is an entity set?	A collection of similar entities.
Basic	How are entities shown in ER diagrams?	As rectangles.
Basic	Define similar entity sets	They have the same attributes
Basic	How are attributes depicted in ER diagrams?	As ovals attached to entity sets
Basic	What are Product attributes?	name, category, price
Basic	How are entities represented in E/R diagrams?	They are not explicitly represented.
Basic	What attributes are associated with a product entity?	Name, category, price.
Basic	What is an entity set?	A collection of similar entities.
Basic	What is a key?	A set of attributes that uniquely identifies an entity.
Basic	What must every entity set have?	A key.
Basic	How are primary key elements denoted?	By underlining.
Basic	What attributes form the key for Product?	name, category, price.
Basic	What does R in E/R stand for?	Relationships
Basic	What is a relationship in E/R?	A connection between two entities
Basic	Company attributes?	name, category, Stock_price
Basic	Product attributes?	name, price
Basic	Person attributes?	name, ssn, address
Basic	'makes' relationship?	Company makes Product
Basic	'buys' relationship?	Person buys Product
Basic	'employs' relationship?	Company employs Person
Basic	What is a Relationship?	A subset of the Cartesian product of sets A and B.
Basic	What is a Relationship?	A subset of the Cartesian product of two sets.
Basic	What is a Relationship?	A subset of A x B.
Basic	What is A x B?	The set of all pairs (a,b) with a in A and b in B.
Basic	What is a relationship?	A subset of all possible pairs from two entity sets.
Basic	How are relationship tuples identified?	By using the keys of the participating entities.
Basic	What is a Relationship?	A subset of pairs from two entity sets identified by their keys.
Basic	How are relationship tuples uniquely identified?	By the keys of the participating entity sets.
Basic	What is a Relationship?	A subset of all possible pairs of entities identified by their keys.
Basic	What is a Relationship?	A set uniquely determined by entity keys.
Basic	What is the key for the Makes relationship?	{Product.name, Company.name}
Basic	Can relationships have attributes?	Yes, they are called descriptive attributes.
Basic	What are descriptive attributes?	Attributes that describe a relationship.
Basic	What does the 'since' attribute record?	It records when a company started making a product.
Basic	What is a multi-way relationship?	A relationship involving three or more entities.
Basic	Which entities are involved in the purchase relationship example?	Buyers, Products, and Stores.
Basic	What is a self-referencing relationship?	A relationship from an entity set to itself.
Basic	Give an example of a self-referencing relationship.	Employee A manages employee B.
Basic	What roles are defined in the Reports_To relationship?	supervisor and subordinate.
Basic	Which entity is involved in the Reports_To relationship?	Employees (e.g., with attributes ssn and name).
Basic	What are Country attributes?	name, area, population, gdp
Basic	What are City attributes?	name, population, longitude, latitude
Basic	What are River attributes?	name, length
Basic	What are Sea attributes?	name, max depth
Basic	How does City relate to Country?	City belongs to Country
Basic	How does River relate to Country?	River crosses Country
Basic	How does River relate to Sea?	River ends in Sea
Basic	What are Country's attributes?	name, area, population, gdp
Basic	What are City's attributes?	name, population, longitude, latitude
Basic	What are River's attributes?	name, length
Basic	What are Sea's attributes?	name, max depth
Basic	How is City related to Country?	City belongs to Country
Basic	How is River related to Country?	River crosses Country
Basic	How is River related to Sea?	River ends in Sea
Basic	What are integrity constraints?	Rules that limit database events.
Basic	What registration rule is enforced by integrity constraints?	Enrollment must be less than or equal to capacity.
Basic	What SQL constraints are examples of integrity constraints?	UNIQUE, FOREIGN KEY, PRIMARY KEY, CHECK.
Basic	How are constraints depicted in an ER diagram?	As restrictions in relationships or entities.
Basic	What indicates key constraints in relationships?	Arrows indicate key constraints.
Basic	What is a one-to-one relationship?	Each entity pairs with exactly one entity on the other side.
Basic	What is a many-to-one relationship?	Many entities on the left associate with one on the right.
Basic	What does X -> Y mean?	There exists a function mapping from X to Y.
Basic	What is a one-to-many relationship?	One entity can associate with many, while each on the many side links to at most one.
Basic	What is a many-to-many relationship?	Entities on both sides can associate with multiple others, with each pair appearing only once.
Basic	Category attribute?	name
Basic	Product attributes?	name, price
Basic	Who makes Product?	Company
Basic	Company attribute?	stock_price
Basic	Who buys Product?	Person
Basic	Who employs Person?	Company
Basic	Person attributes?	name, ssn, address
Basic	What does the arrow mean in multiway relationships?	It indicates that given a person, you can determine what they bought and the store.
Basic	What does the arrow mean?	A store uniquely determines both the purchased product and the shopper.
Basic	What constraint does the arrow in a multiway relationship fail to enforce?	That each person shops in at most one store.
Basic	How can you enforce that a person shops in at most one store?	By using aggregation or an extra entity.
Basic	How do you convert a multiway relationship to binary?	Decompose it into separate binary relationships using role names.
Basic	What does ProductOf indicate?	It links a purchase to a product.
Basic	What does StoreOf indicate?	It links a purchase to a store.
Basic	What does BuyerOf indicate?	It links a purchase to a person.
Basic	What is a multiway relationship?	A relationship with more than 2 entities.
Basic	What is a binary relationship?	A relationship between 2 entities.
Basic	How do you convert a multiway relationship?	Break it into binary associations.
Basic	What does ProductOf represent?	The link from purchase to product.
Basic	What does StoreOf represent?	The link from purchase to store.
Basic	What does BuyerOf represent?	The link from purchase to person.
Basic	What is total participation?	Every entity appears at least once in a relationship.
Basic	What does a bold line indicate?	Total participation.
Basic	In total participation, can a product have no company?	No, every product must be made by a company.
Basic	What is a single-value constraint?	A combination of a key constraint and a total participation constraint.
Basic	In 'each product made by at most one company', what does the key constraint mean?	A product is produced by zero or one company.
Basic	In 'each product made by exactly one company', what does total participation ensure?	Every product is produced by one company.
Basic	What are Country attributes?	name, area, population, gdp
Basic	What are City attributes?	name, population, longitude, latitude
Basic	What are River attributes?	name, length
Basic	What are Sea attributes?	name, max depth
Basic	What is the City-Country relationship?	Each city belongs to a single country
Basic	What is the River-Country relationship?	A river crosses one or several countries
Basic	What is the River-Sea relationship?	A river ends in a single sea
Basic	What attributes does Country have?	name, area, population, gdp
Basic	What attributes does City have?	name, population, longitude, latitude
Basic	What attributes does River have?	name, length
Basic	What attributes does Sea have?	name, max depth
Basic	How many countries can a City belong to?	A single country
Basic	How many countries can a River cross?	One or several countries
Basic	How many seas can a River end in?	A single sea
Basic	When is an entity of interest?	When it is associated with another entity.
Basic	What is a weak entity?	An entity that depends on another for its key.
Basic	What defines a weak entity set?	Its key is derived from related entity sets.
Basic	How does a course name illustrate weakness?	It matters only when tied to a specific university.
Basic	What is a weak entity set?	An entity set whose key comes from related entity sets.
Basic	What is a partial key?	A key that only partially identifies a weak entity.
Basic	What is the supporting entity set?	The entity that provides the key for a weak entity.
Basic	What is the supporting relationship?	The relationship linking a weak entity to its supporting entity set.
Basic	What is a class hierarchy?	An organization of classes using inheritance.
Basic	What does inheritance mean in OO?	Subclasses inherit attributes from a superclass.
Basic	What is a specialized entity?	An entity with attributes specific to a subclass.
Basic	What does 'ISA' signify?	Every A entity is also a B entity.
Basic	Give an example of a class hierarchy.	Employee to Contracted/Hourly.
Basic	What are overlap constraints?	Rules if an entity can belong to multiple subclasses.
Basic	What are covering constraints?	Rules if every entity must belong to a subclass.
Basic	What is aggregation?	Modeling a relationship involving another relationship set.
Basic	What is the benefit of aggregation?	It treats a relationship set as an entity for other relationships.
Basic	Why not use a multi-way relationship?	Because monitors and sponsors are distinct relationships.
Basic	What is the constraint on sponsorship monitoring?	Each sponsorship is monitored by at most one employee.
Basic	Is ER modeling straightforward?	It can be tricky.
Basic	How can a concept be modeled in ER?	As an entity or an attribute.
Basic	What alternate modeling choice exists for a concept?	As an entity or a relationship.
Basic	How can relationships be identified?	Binary, multiway, or via aggregation.
Basic	Do ER diagrams capture all constraints?	No, some must be noted in text.
Basic	When should design be refined?	In the logical (relational) phase.
Basic	Entity vs. Attribute?	Decide if a concept like address is a distinct object or just a property.
Basic	When should address be modeled as an entity?	When it includes multiple details (Street, ZIP, Addr 1, Addr 2) warranting its own identity.
Basic	What does AddrOf signify?	It denotes the relationship linking Employee with Address.
Basic	How do we handle employees with multiple addresses?	Model addresses as separate entities.
Basic	How do we handle internal address details?	Use an entity to capture sub-attributes like zip code and state.
Basic	When to create a new entity?	When recording several values.
Basic	What is Option A for modeling address?	Store address details as attributes.
Basic	What is Option B for modeling address?	Model address as a separate entity linked to Employee.
Basic	What does AddrOf represent?	The relationship between Employee and Address.
Basic	Relationship vs Entity?	Deciding if purchase is a relationship or its own entity.
Basic	What does 'A person can only buy a specific product once' imply?	Person and product form a unique pair in a purchase.
Basic	Why replace a relationship with an entity?	To allow multiple instances per entity pairing.
Basic	What does modeling Purchase as an entity permit?	Multiple purchases for the same product-person pair.
Basic	What is a multiway relationship?	A relationship involving more than two entities.
Basic	What is a binary relationship?	A relationship involving exactly two entities.
Basic	How do you ensure a policy is owned by one employee?	Link the policy to a unique employee (using a foreign key).
Basic	What relationship exists between a policy and dependents?	A one-to-many relationship (one policy covers multiple dependents).
Basic	What attribute uniquely identifies a policy?	policyid
Basic	Multiway vs Binary?	Multiway involves more than 2 entities; binary involves 2.
Basic	How is policy ownership modeled?	Each policy is owned by one employee, though it can cover multiple dependents.
Basic	What are the core attributes of Policies?	policyid, cost, name.
Basic	What attributes describe Dependents?	pname and age.
Basic	What might ssn and lot represent?	They likely serve as identifiers for another entity.
Basic	What is a multiway relationship?	A relationship involving more than two entities.
Basic	Why are binary relationships inadequate for contracts?	They can't capture combined concepts like quantity in a multi-entity contract.
Basic	What example illustrates a multiway relationship?	A contract where a supplier provides parts to a department with a specified quantity.
Basic	Multiway relationship?	Connects >2 entities directly.
Basic	Aggregation?	Encapsulates a relationship as an entity.
Basic	How enforce one store per person?	Link person to a single store via membership.
Basic	What is wrong with the 'Product Purchase Person' example?	It restricts each person to a single product purchase.
Basic	What is wrong with the 'President Country Person' example?	It allows multiple presidents and might not require each country to have one.
Basic	What design error does 'maybe people should be entities' highlight?	Modeling people as attributes instead of entities.
Basic	What issue arises from mixing terms like date, Product, Purchase, and Store?	Inconsistent categorization of items as entities or attributes.
Basic	What naming inconsistency is evident between personAddr and personName?	Irregular detail levels and abbreviations in naming.
Basic	Should dates be modeled as entities?	No, dates should be attributes.
Basic	What is the next step in DB design?	From conceptual to logical DB design.
Basic	How is an entity set converted?	It becomes a relation.
Basic	How is a relationship converted?	It becomes a relation.
Basic	What does the DB schema require?	Further refinement.
Basic	What tool aids DB schema refinement?	Functional dependencies.
Basic	Which concept ensures schema normalization?	Normal forms.
Basic	When does conceptual design occur?	After requirements analysis.
Basic	What does conceptual design yield?	A high-level description of data.
Basic	What are the basic constructs in conceptual design?	Entities, relationships, and attributes.
Basic	What are additional constructs in conceptual design?	Weak entities, class hierarchies, and aggregation.
Basic	What integrity constraints are used in ER design?	Key, participation, and overlap/covering constraints.
Basic	What design choices are involved in ER design?	Entity vs attribute, relationship type, binary vs multiway, aggregation vs multiway.
Basic	What follows ER design?	Logical database design for a relational schema.
Basic	How are entity sets represented in relational design?	As tables.
Basic	Which SQL command creates a table?	CREATE TABLE.
Basic	What is the data type of Product name?	VARCHAR(40).
Basic	What is the data type of Product category?	VARCHAR(40).
Basic	What is the data type of Product price?	DECIMAL(2,10).
Basic	What constraint is defined on Product name?	PRIMARY KEY.
Basic	ER → Relational	Converting ER models to relational schemas.
Basic	Orders relation attributes	prod-ID, cust-ID, date.
Basic	Shipment relation attributes	prod-ID, cust-ID, name, date.
Basic	Shipping-Co relation attributes	name, address.
Basic	What table is created for the many-to-many relationship?	Shipment
Basic	What is the primary key of the Shipment table?	prod-ID, cust-ID, name
Basic	Which columns in Shipment reference the Order table?	prod-ID and cust-ID
Basic	Which column in Shipment references Shipping-Co?	name
Basic	What is a many-to-one relationship?	Multiple records linking to a single record.
Basic	Which entity is on the one side in the example?	Company.
Basic	What keys join Product and Company?	Product name (P.name) and Company name (C.name).
Basic	What do key constraints in combining relations ensure?	Integrity of matched records.
Basic	Which tables are combined?	Product, Make, and Company.
Basic	What attributes does the Product table include?	name, category, and price.
Basic	What extra attribute does the Company table include?	country.
Basic	What linking attributes are used in Make?	P.name and C.name.
Basic	How are many-one relationships handled?	No separate relations are created.
Basic	Which column is the primary key in Product?	pname
Basic	Which column is the foreign key in Product?	cname referencing Company(name)
Basic	What does the foreign key in Product enforce?	Referential integrity with Company
Basic	What columns does the Company table have?	name and country
Basic	What participation constraint is captured in a binary relationship?	Exactly once semantics for one entity set.
Basic	What is the primary key in the Product table?	pname.
Basic	What foreign key does the Product table have?	cname referencing Company(name).
Basic	What is the general approach for translating ISA hierarchies?	Use 3 relations: Employees, Hourly_Emps, Contract_Emps.
Basic	What are the attributes in the Employees relation (3-relation approach)?	ssn, name, lot.
Basic	What are the attributes in the Hourly_Emps relation (3-relation approach)?	ssnFK, hourly wages, hours_worked.
Basic	What are the attributes in the Contract_Emps relation (3-relation approach)?	ssnFK, contractid.
Basic	What is a drawback of the 3-relation approach for Hourly_Emps queries?	They require a join to retrieve some attributes.
Basic	What is the alternative approach for ISA hierarchies?	Use two relations: Hourly_Emps and Contract_Emps.
Basic	What are the attributes in Hourly_Emps (two-relation approach)?	ssn, name, lot, hourly wages, hours_worked.
Basic	What are the attributes in Contract_Emps (two-relation approach)?	ssn, name, lot, contractid.
Basic	What constraint exists for employees in the alternative approach?	Each employee must be in one of the two subclasses.
Basic	How is aggregation translated?	Treat a relationship table as an entity.
Basic	How are key constraints handled?	Combine relations when translating aggregation.
